scripts/assets/llm-context-footer.md, before:

## Common Workflows

### New Project Setup
1. `winapp init .` - Initialize workspace with appxmanifest.xml, image assets, test certicate, and optionally SDK projections in the .winapp folder. (run with `--use-defaults` to make it non-interactive)
2. Edit `appxmanifest.xml` if need to modify properties, set capabilities, or other configurations
3. Build your app
4. `winapp create-debug-identity <exe-path>` - to generate package identity from generated appxmanifest.xml before running the app so the exe has package identity
5. Run the app
4. `winapp pack <output-folder-to-package> --cert .\devcert.pfx` - Create signed MSIX (--cert is optional)

### Existing Project (Clone/CI)
1. `winapp restore` - Reinstall packages and generate C++ projections from `winapp.yaml`
2. Build and package as normal

### Update SDK Versions
1. `winapp update` - Check for and install newer SDK versions
2. Rebuild your app

### Debug with Package Identity
For apps that need Windows APIs requiring identity (push notifications, etc.):
1. Ensure a appxmanifest.xml is present, either via `winapp init` or `winapp manifest generate`
2. `winapp create-debug-identity ./myapp.exe` - generate package identity from generated appxmanifest.xml before running the app so the exe has package identity
3. Run your app - it now has package identity

### Electron Apps
1. `winapp init` - Set up workspace (run with --use-defaults to make it non-interactive)
2. `winapp node create-addon --template cs` - Generate native C# addon for Windows APIs (`--template cpp` for C++ addon)
3. `winapp node add-electron-debug-identity` - Enable identity for debugging
4. `npm start` to launch app normally, but now with identity
4. For production, create production files with the prefered packager and run `winapp pack <generated-production-files> --cert .\devcert.pfx`

## Prerequisites & State

| Command | Requires | Creates/Modifies |
|---------|----------|------------------|
| `init` | Nothing | `winapp.yaml`, `.winapp/`, `appxmanifest.xml`, `Assets/`, `.devcert.pfx` |
| `restore` | `winapp.yaml` | `.winapp/packages/` |
| `update` | `winapp.yaml` | Updates versions in `winapp.yaml` |
| `manifest generate` | Nothing | `appxmanifest.xml`, `Assets/` |
| `cert generate` | Nothing (or `appxmanifest.xml` for publisher inference) | `*.pfx` file |
| `package` | App build output + `appxmanifest.xml` (+ `devcert.pfx` for optional signing) | `*.msix` file |
| `create-debug-identity` | `appxmanifest.xml` + exe | Registers sparse package with Windows |

## Machine-Readable Schema

For programmatic access to the complete CLI structure including all options, types, and defaults:

```bash
winapp --cli-schema
```

This outputs JSON that can be parsed by tools and LLMs. See [cli-schema.json](cli-schema.json).

Commit message:

adding quick note on installing sdks after running init

scripts/assets/llm-context-footer.md, after:

## Common Workflows

### New Project Setup
1. `winapp init .` - Initialize workspace with appxmanifest.xml, image assets, test certicate, and optionally SDK projections in the .winapp folder. (run with `--use-defaults` to make it non-interactive)
2. Edit `appxmanifest.xml` if need to modify properties, set capabilities, or other configurations
3. Build your app
4. `winapp create-debug-identity <exe-path>` - to generate package identity from generated appxmanifest.xml before running the app so the exe has package identity
5. Run the app
4. `winapp pack <output-folder-to-package> --cert .\devcert.pfx` - Create signed MSIX (--cert is optional)

### Existing Project (Clone/CI)
1. `winapp restore` - Reinstall packages and generate C++ projections from `winapp.yaml`
2. Build and package as normal

### Update SDK Versions
1. `winapp update` - Check for and install newer SDK versions
2. Rebuild your app

### Install SDKs After Initial Setup
If you ran `init` with `--setup-sdks none` (or skipped SDK installation) and later need the SDKs:
1. `winapp init --use-defaults --setup-sdks stable` - Re-run init to install SDKs
   - `--use-defaults` skips prompts and preserves existing files (manifest, cert, etc.)
   - Use `--setup-sdks preview` or `--setup-sdks experimental` for preview/experimental SDK versions
2. Rebuild your app with the new SDK projections in `.winapp/`

### Debug with Package Identity
For apps that need Windows APIs requiring identity (push notifications, etc.):
1. Ensure a appxmanifest.xml is present, either via `winapp init` or `winapp manifest generate`
2. `winapp create-debug-identity ./myapp.exe` - generate package identity from generated appxmanifest.xml before running the app so the exe has package identity
3. Run your app - it now has package identity

### Electron Apps
1. `winapp init` - Set up workspace (run with --use-defaults to make it non-interactive)
2. `winapp node create-addon --template cs` - Generate native C# addon for Windows APIs (`--template cpp` for C++ addon)
3. `winapp node add-electron-debug-identity` - Enable identity for debugging
4. `npm start` to launch app normally, but now with identity
4. For production, create production files with the prefered packager and run `winapp pack <generated-production-files> --cert .\devcert.pfx`

## Prerequisites & State

| Command | Requires | Creates/Modifies |
|---------|----------|------------------|
| `init` | Nothing | `winapp.yaml`, `.winapp/`, `appxmanifest.xml`, `Assets/`, `.devcert.pfx` |
| `restore` | `winapp.yaml` | `.winapp/packages/` |
| `update` | `winapp.yaml` | Updates versions in `winapp.yaml` |
| `manifest generate` | Nothing | `appxmanifest.xml`, `Assets/` |
| `cert generate` | Nothing (or `appxmanifest.xml` for publisher inference) | `*.pfx` file |
| `package` | App build output + `appxmanifest.xml` (+ `devcert.pfx` for optional signing) | `*.msix` file |
| `create-debug-identity` | `appxmanifest.xml` + exe | Registers sparse package with Windows |

## Machine-Readable Schema

For programmatic access to the complete CLI structure including all options, types, and defaults:

```bash
winapp --cli-schema
```

This outputs JSON that can be parsed by tools and LLMs. See [cli-schema.json](cli-schema.json).
